10 Best JavaScript Frameworks To Be Expert JS Developer

Aug 20 2018

When you approach Web Development, JavaScript frameworks are the best popular platforms
for developers and businesses in current time. Probably, you have had an option to try-out
with one or two of the JavaScript Frameworks, however, must not have explored all of them.
Through this blog devote yourself to discover or put forward your developer to pick for
your subsequent web development project.

This is fairly noticeable that JavaScript is moving forward at a swift pace and there is
unvarying pressure to add innovative abilities to your repository. In order to do that,
exploring more of the top JavaScript Frameworks in present time is essential

We have discussed with the javascript industry experts, analysis forums and read hundreds
of blogs and create comparison of the JS frameworks. After that, we have present here the
best javascript frameworks for 2018 and 2019.

So, Let’s see one by one.

1. AngularJS

Angular.js is a trendy open-source front-end development framework which is largely
utilized for developing useful dynamic single-page applications on the web.

Flexibility and Benefits

AngularJS shifts the contents from the server to the browser all along with loading the
required web pages at the same time. After loading the contents, clicking on any link on
the page do not reload the whole page content; as a substitute, it just updates the
sections within the web page.

It enables rapid development as evaluated against accustomed HTML and JavaScript if you
have a decent hand over Angular.js. It can be configured on both MVW & MVC architecture.
Its features make it better than other and that’s why we can say that angularjs is the
best javascript framework.

Functionalities and Features

    Data-binding

The two-way data-binding function helps developers to write the code. The automatic
synchronization of required data forms it amid model and view components.

    Templates

They are parsed by the browsers and straightforwardly passed into the DOM.

    Dependency Injection

Has integral dependency injection that assists better and natural development along with testing.

    Directives

With this function, it becomes effortless to build custom HTML tags that perform like new
custom widgets. It is even utilized to manipulate DOM attributes.

2. NodeJS

NodeJS

Image Source:- nodejs.org

It is the most largely downloaded open source and cross-platform in the runtime
environment for implementing JavaScript code exterior to a browser. It is utilized for
developing server-side and networking applications with back-end services along with APIs.
It is built on Google Chrome’s JavaScript Engine (V8 Engine) as a platform.

Flexibility and Benefits

The JavaScript-based applications created on Node can be run within the Node.js runtime on
diverse OS’s such as MacOS, Linux and Microsoft Windows.

It supports better Integration with the assistance of JavaScript stacks. It considers same
code for server and client-side. NPM package is very accommodating given that it contains
all the files that are essential for a module. NodeJS is very quick as it is powered by
the Google’s V8 engine.

Functionalities and Features

    Proxy server

It assists in streaming data from diverse sources and can be utilized to proxy servers.

    No buffering

The applications in NodeJS under no circumstances buffer any of the data. This is for the
reason that the applications output the data in the form of chunks.

    Asynchronous

The given APIs of Node’s library is driven asynchronously so that the server does not hang
around for an API to give back data; hence rendering the data in this way offers a swift
response to each request.

    Scalable

Node utilizes single-threaded models which comprise of event looping. The provided event
mechanism assists servers to act in response in an asynchronous way that turns the servers
extremely scalable. This feature enables to manage more requests at a time when contrasted
to Apache HTTP server.

3. ReactJS

It is one of the best JavaScript framework and managed by a reputed brand like Facebook.
Be its capacity to achieve best results in SEO, have simpler JSX, better Virtual DOM or
influential JavaScript library, Reactjs is the developer’s pick to create dynamic and
superior web traffic applications.

Flexibility and Benefits

You can utilize React with diverse frameworks like AngularJS, Backbone.js and other
platforms effortlessly. Maintaining React is trouble-free and clear-cut owing to its
reusability of components and a component-based architecture.

It is flexible to be used on both server and client-side helping in the distribution of
the rendering load from a server to a client if it is crucial.

Functionalities and Features

    Components

React.js is component and UI based. This function is helpful when it is about maintaining
the code while operating bigger-scale development projects.

    JSX

It indicates that the script requires processing and conversion to specific JavaScript.
JSX can shorten and simplify needed syntaxes to transform coding and make it simpler when
matched to JavaScript.

    Data binding

One-way data binding all along with the application infrastructure is known as Flux
controls. The one-way data flow helps to ease things in an application and Flux assists to
keep data unidirectional.

4. Vue.js

It is the top growing popular javascript framework accepted by developers. It is a JS
framework which gets a lot of its impressions from ReactJS and AngularJS.

Flexibility and Benefits

Vue is easy, flexible and straightforward to understand, develop and integrate with a tiny
footprint. It has a template style alike to Angular and has component based props matching
with ReactJS functionalities. It offers a simple and quick fix for applications, UI, and
an engaging web interface development. It can empower you with sophisticated single page
web applications.

Functionalities and Features

    Templates

It utilizes HTML based template syntax. The templates are parsed with the assistance of
HTML parsers and the needed spec-compliant browsers.

    Transitions

It facilitates the application of transition effects while items are updated, inserted and
removed from the DOM.

    Components

This is measured to be one of the most controlling features. Components lengthen the
fundamental HTML elements to enfold reusable code.

    Reactivity

This platform has a robust reactivity system. When the models in the form of JavaScript
objects are custom-made the view is automatedly updated.

5. Emberjs

Ember is an open-source framework that enables developers to builds a single page and
large-scale applications on the web. Ember has been an exceedingly followed framework
which is highly flexible. Ember makes multiple assumptions in regards to applications and
turns a developer validate to its expectations.

Flexibility and Benefits

A whole development stack can be produced by using Ember and other vital tools. Ember uses
components, layouts and its own backend architecture which allows developers to write
their own application-specific HTML tag.

Handlebars integrated templates fill in automatedly when the fundamental data alters along
with considerably lesser coding. Portals like Live, LinkedIn, and Vine use Ember. It is
even utilized to develop desktop and mobile apps.

One of the most noteworthy uses of Ember is in Apple Music which is a desktop application.
Ember has a commanding routing system when evaluate to React or Angular. Ember is ahead of
many backend frameworks in case of updates and new features.

Functionalities and Features

    MVVM pattern

Ember operates on the Model-view-view model (MVVM) pattern and pursues Convention over
Configuration (CoC).

    Templates

Ember templates are developed into the UI which are coded with Handlebars templating
language.

    CLI

Ember’s CLI offers benchmarked application structure and creates pipelines. The CLI is a
command line utility that comes along with the framework’s software stack.

6. Backbone.js

Backbone is a lightweight JavaScript library which is a supple framework for having a
structured code. It enables developers to build single page web applications and
client-side applications that operate in a given web browser. It provides MVP network,
which summarizes the data into models, DOM into views and binds.

Flexibility and Benefits

Backbone puts the developer in control of selecting the precise tool that works most
excellently for a specified project. A templating engine of its own does not subsist in
Backbone.js.

Organizations like Sony Entertainment Network, SoundCloud and Airbnb utilize BackboneJS
for their different projects. It is chosen by businesses and developers as it is able to
utilize any code as its controller while maintaining the controller optional.

Functionalities and Features

    Interface

It is a strong framework that possesses a RESTful JSON interface dependent on the
Model-view-presenter (MVP) app model. JSON is not so significant and executes data
serialization while the RESTful interface which is one that is built of the type of the
REST architecture.

    Sync with the back-end

Models in Backbone.js can be attached to a back-end as Backbone offers the best support
for RESTful APIs.

    Event-driven

Event-driven communication amid views and models averts the code from being tough to read.

7. Mithriljs

Mithril is a less recognized JS library however it is the latest JavaScript framework
which is utilized for developing single page applications on the client-side. Mithril has
active development and suitable documentation. It has an intellectual auto-redrawing
solution. It is Flux well-suited, healthy and un-opinionated. It is a pure JavaScript
framework of virtual DOM.

Flexibility and Benefits

It is minute in size around or lesser than 8KB gzip. It is quick and offers routing, and
XHR functional utilities. It backs all the required browsers such as IE9 without the
prerequisite of any of the polyfills.

It even builds vnode data structures that are accumulated using JavaScript engines for
required data structure access presentation.

The reason behind Mithril backing a rendering model which rebuilds the complete virtual
DOM tree is to offer a declarative API which turns it simpler to handle UI complexity. The
framework is recognized to be pragmatic because it is clear-cut to be trained on
components, routing and XHR within 15 minutes to commence structuring applications.

It is presently utilized by organizations such as Nike, Fitbit, and platforms like
Lichess. Mithril makes use of refined and optimized virtual DOM algorithm to reduce the
amount of DOM updates.

Functionalities and Features

    Key feature

Mithril provides hierarchical MVC components, safe-by-default templates, URL routing and
tailored data binding.

    Testability

Its templates are just JavaScript-based so that developers can do testing in any of the
JavaScript engine without a build stage.

    Components

In Mithril.js, components are built with an elective controller and a requisite view
property.

    Performance

It loads in under 5ms when matching up to erstwhile frameworks. It is the swift MVC
library in the TodoMVC standard.

8. Polymerjs

PolymerJS

Image Source:- polymer-project.org

PolymerJS is yet other open-source JavaScript library for creating web applications
utilizing Web components. This library is built by Google developers and has been provided
on GitHub. Contrasting to any other JavaScript framework, Polymer is created to influence
the features that are in attendance in the web platform to let developers built
components. It was the very foremost library to consent to interactive structuring
applications by compiling components.

Flexibility and Benefits

The polymer framework is utilized by Google services and web portals. It is being utilized
by Google Play Music, YouTube, and Netflix.

The platform has commenced gaining recognition in the market with a lot of concentration
given to its structured design procedures. Since components are the major strengths of
Polymer, it has enhanced support for web components and has superior offline modules when
matched to React.

Functionalities and Features

    Web Components

The web component benchmarks assist in the creation of used widgets in web application and
documentation. These all components are re-usable web components. The components can also
be utilized to break an application into precise-sized pieces making code cleaner and not
as much expensive.

    Polyfills

It utilizes the newest APIs for web platforms and offers polyfills for browsers. Polyfills
are web component terms which are utilized for building own tailor-made and reusable
elements.

    Data-binding

Both types of one-way and two-way data binding are likely with this library.

9. Meteorjs

MeteoJS

Image Source:- meteor.com

JavaScript is utilized as the widespread scripting language in browsers on the
client-side. The idea behind this Javascript framework is to build back-end in lesser time
and even build expertise quickly.

For this reason, front-end developer can even cover work on the back-end contentedly with
Meteor without switching perspective between Ruby, Java, Python or PHP. It provides the
suppleness to utilize one language in all the required places.

Flexibility and Benefits

With Meteor, web applications for any of the devices can be built with less coding in just
one programming language that is JavaScript. This is the breed of UI most of the companies
are looking for in the market.

Organizations including Mazda, Honeywell, and Qualcomm use this Javascript framework. It
utilizes data on the wire which works on the resources that the server sends in the form
of data and not the HTML while the client provides it.

Functionalities and Features

    Isomorphic JavaScript code

It enables utilizing the similar or same code on the front-end and the back-end for
different types of both mobile and web apps. With this functionality and feature,
developers could do their job without configuring and installing diverse libraries, 
drivers, APIs and manage modules.

    Live-browser reloading

When there are alterations to be made on the given front-end, Meteor automatedly reloads
the live website pages. Integrated live reloading permits refreshing only the necessary
DOM elements without reloading the whole page.

    Full-stack solution

Meteor offers a complete stack solution for developing and utilizing web applications.

    Development is highly straightforward

it is easy working with the front-end, back-end and the required databases all rolled into
the same JavaScript language. It is also simple to set up and commence building projects.
It is extremely scalable and novice friendly.

10. Aurelia

It is a compilation of open source advanced JavaScript modules and is known to be the
next-generation UI framework coded in the ECMAScript. It is being sponsored by Blue Spire
and serves as a strong platform for creating the browser, desktop, and multiple categories
of mobile apps.

Aurelia has been getting hold of a lot of credit ever right from its initiation in the
market. Organizations like Freska, Ordami and BTEK Software utilize Aurelia in their
multiple types of projects.

Flexibility and Benefits

Aurelia is just the only framework that developers create needed components with plain
TypeScript or using the JavaScript. It has been said to have overhauled Angular with
respect to modularity.

Given that Angular has its each and every component bundled into a single big pack, it
turns tricky to remove or alter components in this given architecture. On the other side,
Aurelia comprises an enormous compilation of libraries that work jointly using
well-defined interfaces so that it twirls out to be totally modular.

Functionalities and Features

    Upright thinking

It focuses on next-generation of JavaScript. It integrates with required Web Components
with no exterior dependencies.

    Data binding

Forms two-way binding in a well-organized way of observing every property in a provided
module and automatedly sync it to a User Interface (UI), with the finest performance.

    UI Composition & Routing

Assists in utilizing a superior client-side router with its asynchronous screen
activation, pluggable pipeline, and the required child routers.

    Extensible HTML

The function empowers the web developers to build modified HTML elements along with
supplementary attributes to present elements with complete support for having dynamic
loading, batched rendering along with data-binding.

    Multiple language support & simple testing

It supports ES5, ES2015 and ES2016 along with TypeScript. The APIs are being developed in
a way that they are companionable with the latest web programming languages. It is
testable for ES2015 utilizing DI container.

Conclusion

I hope above ten frameworks give you a clear idea about JS frameworks to be chosen for
your subsequent development project. After deep research and analysis, we have listed
above top 10 javascript frameworks. You can choose the framework based on your project
requirements. You can also compare this JS frameworks with each other for better
understand of its usefulness.

If you have any doubt or question regarding this article, then you can comment below and
ask us. Your feedback will be highly appreciate. Thanks

Written By : technostacks
